1)
Rust definitely allows you to become a great programmer since using
a strongly-typed language teaches you a lot about the underlying mechanics
of how a computer works. The enforcement of types gives early error detection,
which can allow students to quickly identify and correct mistakes.
Working in a modern language is also great since it gives you an in-demand skill-set.
Rust also has a whole host of features inspired by other languages, and so
many of the concepts used in Rust also carry through when one needs to use another language.

2)
Rust does provide compact memory use, and the ownership model means we can have
very precise memory management without a garbage collector using up extra resources
(like in Java). Zero-cost abstractions make it great in the context of embedded systems
and latency-critical applications.
On the flip-side, it can be difficult navigating Rust's ownership rules, and can make
code quite complex with lifetime management.

3)
Rust definitely provides performant software by providing control over low-level
memory management, and being able to interact with hardware directly. In cases where
unsafe behaviour (like de-referencing raw pointers) may be necessary, Rust allows
this through the `unsafe` keyword.
Rust provides performant software on a single CPU core (i.e. multithreaded) as well
as across cores by synchronization mechanisms such as Mutex and RwLock.
On the other hand, achieving optimal performance in Rust still requires a deep understanding
of memory management and concurrency primitives, so there is a steep learning curve.

4)
Wanting correct and memory-safe software makes Rust a great candidate since the borrow checker
and ownership system avoids memory bugs at compile-time. It removes the need for a garbage
collector since objects are destroyed once their life-time ends.

5)
It is definitely a great language to learn as a challenge, and I would argue it ties
together a lot of the concepts that any CS student has come across in other languages,
so it acts as a good academic tool. Although it requires persistence and interest in learning
the details of memory management, and the ownership system, it highlights related flaws in
other languages.

In conclusion, the writer makes valid points both for or against, but I would argue that
the arguments for using Rust are significantly stronger than the arguments against. Not only
is the language, performant, memory-safe, flexible, and intuitive, but once learned properly
software development can be rapid.
The writer's arguments against using Rust stem mainly from difficulty in learning the language
or lack of interest, but any student with a keen desire for improving their abilities
should embrace such a challenge.
